---
id: upgrading-from-6.x
title: Upgrading from 6.x
sidebar_label: Upgrading from 6.x
---

React Navigation 7 focuses on streamlining the API to avoid patterns that can cause bugs. This means deprecating some of the legacy behavior kept for backward compatibility reasons.

This guides lists all the breaking changes and new features in React Navigation 7 that you need to be aware of when upgrading from React Navigation 6.

## Minimum Requirements

- `react-native` >= 0.72.0
- `expo` >= 52 (if you use [Expo Go](https://expo.dev/go))
- `typescript` >= 5.0.0 (if you use TypeScript)

## Breaking changes

### Changes to the `navigate` action

#### The `navigate` method no longer navigates to screen in a nested child navigator

Due to backward compatibility reasons, React Navigation 5 and 6 support navigating to a screen in a nested child navigator with `navigation.navigate(ScreenName)` syntax. But this is problematic:

- It only works if the navigator is already mounted - making navigation coupled to other logic.
- It doesn't work with the TypeScript types.

Due to these issues, we have a special API to navigate to a nested screen (`navigation.navigate(ParentScreenName, { screen: ScreenName })`).

From these release, this is no longer the default behavior. If you're relying on this behavior in your app, you can pass the [`navigationInChildEnabled`](navigation-container.md#navigationinchildenabled) prop to `NavigationContainer` to keep the behavior until you are able to migrate:

```jsx
<NavigationContainer navigationInChildEnabled>{/* ... */}</NavigationContainer>
```

The `navigationInChildEnabled` prop will be removed in the next major.

See [`navigate`](navigation-object.md#navigate) for updated usage.

#### The `navigate` method no longer goes back, use `popTo` instead

Previously, `navigate` method navigated back if the screen already exists in the stack. We have seen many people get confused by this behavior.

To avoid this confusion, we have removed the going back behavior from `navigate` and added a [new method `popTo`](stack-actions.md#popto) to explicitly go back to a specific screen in the stack:

```diff lang=js
- navigation.navigate('PreviousScreen', { foo: 42 });
+ navigation.popTo('PreviousScreen', { foo: 42 });
```

The methods now behave as follows:

- `navigate(screenName)` will stay on the current screen if the screen is already focused, otherwise push a new screen to the stack.
- `popTo(screenName)` will go back to the screen if it exists in the stack, otherwise pop the current screen and add this screen to the stack.

See [`popTo`](stack-actions.md#popto) for more details.

To achieve a behavior similar to before with `navigate`, you can use the [`getId`](screen.md#getid) prop in which case it'll go to the screen with the matching ID and push or pop screens accordingly.

To help with the migration, we have added a new method called `navigateDeprecated` which will behave like the old `navigate` method. You can replace your current `navigate` calls with [`navigateDeprecated`](navigation-object.md#navigatedeprecated) to gradually migrate to the new behavior:

```diff lang=js
- navigation.navigate('SomeScreen');
+ navigation.navigateDeprecated('SomeScreen');
```

The `navigateDeprecated` method will be removed in the next major.

#### The `navigate` method no longer accepts a `key` option

Previously, you could specify a route `key` to navigate to, e.g.:

```js
navigation.navigate({ key: 'someuniquekey' })`
```

It's problematic since:

- `key` is an internal implementation detail and created by the library internally - which makes it weird to use.
- None of the other actions support such usage.
- Specifying a `key` is not type-safe, making it easy to cause bugs.

In React Navigation 5, we added the [`getId`](screen.md#getid) prop which can be used for similar use cases - and gives users full control since they provide the ID and it's not autogenerated by the
library.

So the `key` option is now being removed from the `navigate` action.

See [`navigate`](navigation-object.md#navigate) for updated usage.

### Changes to `NavigationContainer`

#### The `onReady` callback on `NavigationContainer` now fires only when there are navigators rendered

Previously, the `onReady` prop and `navigationRef.isReady()` worked slightly differently:

- The `onReady` callback fired when `NavigationContainer` finishes mounting and deep links is resolved.
- The `navigationRef.isReady()` method additionally checks if there are any navigators rendered - which may not be true if the user is rendering their navigators conditionally inside a `NavigationContainer`.

This is important to know since if no navigator is rendered, we can't dispatch any navigation actions as there's no navigator to handle them. But the inconsistency between `onReady` and `navigationRef.isReady()` made it easy to cause issues and confusion.

This changes `onReady` to work similar to `navigationRef.isReady()`. The `onReady` callback will now fire only when there are navigators rendered - reflecting the value of `navigationRef.isReady()`.

This change is not breaking for most users, so you may not need to do anything.

See [`onReady`](navigation-container.md#onready) for usage.

#### The `independent` prop on `NavigationContainer` is removed in favor of `NavigationIndependentTree` component

The `independent` prop on `NavigationContainer` was added to support rendering navigators in a separate tree from the rest of the app. This is useful for use cases such as miniapps.

However, there are issues with this approach:

- When building a miniapp, the responsibility of adding this prop was on the miniapp developer, which isn't ideal since forgetting it can cause problems.
- A lot of beginners mistakenly added this prop and were confused why navigation wasn't working.

So we've removed this prop instead of a `NavigationIndependentTree` component which you can use to wrap the navigation container:

```diff lang=jsx
- <NavigationContainer independent>
-   {/* ... */}
- </NavigationContainer>
+ <NavigationIndependentTree>
+   <NavigationContainer>
+     {/* ... */}
+   </NavigationContainer>
+ </NavigationIndependentTree>
```

This way, the responsibility no longer lies on the miniapp developer, but on the parent app. It's also harder for beginners to accidentally add this.

See [Independent navigation containers](navigation-container.md#independent-navigation-containers) for usage.

#### The `theme` prop now accepts a `fonts` property

Previously, the `theme` prop on `NavigationContainer` accepted a `colors` property to customize the colors used by various UI elements from React Navigation. We have now added a `fonts` property to customize the fonts as well. If you are passing a custom theme in the `theme` prop, you'll need to update it to include the `fonts` property.

```diff lang=js
import { DefaultTheme } from '@react-navigation/native';

const theme = {
  colors: {
    // ...
  },
+   fonts: DefaultTheme.fonts,
};
```

If you want to customize the fonts, see [the themes guide](themes.md) for more details.

### Changes to linking

#### Encoding of params in path position is now more relaxed

Previously, params were always URL encoded with `encodeURIComponent` regardless of their position (e.g. query position such as `?user=jane` or path position such as `/users/jane`) when generating a link for a screen (e.g. URL on the Web). This made it hard to use special characters in the params.

Now, only the params in the query position are URL encoded. For the params in the path position, we only encode the characters that are not allowed in the path position.

With this change, it's easier to use special characters such as `@` in the path. For example, to have a URL such as `profile/@username`, you can use the following in the linking config:

```js
const config = {
  prefixes: ['https://mysite.com'],
  config: {
    screens: {
      Profile: {
        path: 'profile/:username',
        parse: {
          username: (username) => username.replace(/^@/, ''),
        },
        stringify: {
          username: (username) => `@${username}`,
        },
      },
    },
  },
};
```

See [Configuring links](configuring-links.md) for usage of the linking config.

#### The `Link` component and `useLinkProps` hook now use screen names instead of paths

Previously, the `Link` component and `useLinkProps` hook were designed to work with path strings via the `to` prop. But it had few issues:

- The path strings are not type-safe, making it easy to cause typos and bugs after refactor
- The API made navigating via screen name more inconvenient, even if that's the preferred approach

Now, instead of the `to` prop that took a path string, they now accept `screen` and `params` props, as well as an optional `href` prop to use instead of the generated path:

```diff lang=jsx
- <Link to="/details?foo=42">Go to Details</Link>
+ <Link screen="Details" params={{ foo: 42 }}>Go to Details</Link>
```

or

```diff lang=js
- const props = useLinkProps({ to: '/details?foo=42' });
+ const props = useLinkProps({ screen: 'Details', params: { foo: 42 } });
```

With this change, you'd now have full type-safety when using the `Link` component given that you have [configured the global type](typescript.md#specifying-default-types-for-usenavigation-link-ref-etc).

See [`Link`](link.md) and [`useLinkProps`](use-link-props.md) for usage.

#### The `useLinkBuilder` hooks now returns an object instead of a function

Previously, the `useLinkBuilder` hooks returned a function to build a `href` for a screen - which is primarily useful for building custom navigators. Now, it returns an object with `buildHref` and `buildAction` methods:

```js
const { buildHref, buildAction } = useLinkBuilder();

const href = buildHref('Details', { foo: 42 }); // '/details?foo=42'
const action = buildAction('/details?foo=42'); // { type: 'NAVIGATE', payload: { name: 'Details', params: { foo: 42 } } }
```

The `buildHref` method acts the same as the previously returned function. The new `buildAction` method can be used to build a navigation action from a `href` string.

Note that this hook is intended to be primarily used by custom navigators and not by end users. For end users, the `Link` component and `useLinkProps` are the recommended way to navigate.

See [`useLinkBuilder`](use-link-builder.md) for usage.

### Changes to navigators

#### Screens pushed on top of modals are now shown as modals in the Stack and Native Stack navigators

Previously, screens pushed on top of modals were shown as regular screens in the Stack and Native Stack navigators. This often caused glitchy animation on Stack Navigator and appeared behind the modal on Native Stack Navigator. This can be especially confusing if the user came to the screen from a deep link.

Now, screens pushed on top of modals are automatically shown as modals to avoid these issues. This behavior can be disabled by explicitly setting the `presentation` option to `card`:

```jsx
<Stack.Screen
  name="MyModal"
  component={MyModalScreen}
  options={{
    // highlight-next-line
    presentation: 'card',
  }}
/>
```

See [Stack Navigator](stack-navigator.md#presentation) and [Native Stack Navigator](native-stack-navigator.md#presentation) docs for usage.

#### `headerBackTitleVisible` is removed in favor of `headerBackButtonDisplayMode` in Stack and Native Stack navigators

Previously, `headerBackTitleVisible` could be used to control whether the back button title is shown in the header. It's now removed in favor of `headerBackButtonDisplayMode` which provides more flexibility.

The previous behavior can be achieved by setting `headerBackButtonDisplayMode` to `default` and `minimal` for showing and hiding the back button title respectively:

```diff lang=js
<Stack.Screen
  name="Details"
  component={DetailsScreen}
  options={{
-     headerBackTitleVisible: false,
+     headerBackButtonDisplayMode: 'minimal',
  }}
/>
```

#### `animationEnabled` option is removed in favor of `animation` option in Stack Navigator

Previously, `animationEnabled: false` was used to disable the animation for the screen transition in Stack Navigator.

There's now a new `animation` prop to configure animations similar to the Native Stack. So you can now use `animation: 'none'` to disable the animation instead:

```diff lang=js
<Stack.Screen
  name="Details"
  component={DetailsScreen}
  options={{
-     animationEnabled: false,
+     animation: 'none',
  }}
/>
```

See [Stack Navigator animation](stack-navigator.md#animation) for usage.

#### `customAnimationOnGesture` is renamed to `animationMatchesGesture` in Native Stack Navigator

The `customAnimationOnGesture` option in Native Stack Navigator is renamed to `animationMatchesGesture` to better reflect its purpose. If you are using `customAnimationOnGesture` in your project, you can rename it to `animationMatchesGesture`:

```diff lang=js
- <Stack.Navigator options={{ customAnimationOnGesture: true }}>
+ <Stack.Navigator options={{ animationMatchesGesture: true }}>
```

See [Native Stack Navigator](native-stack-navigator.md#animationmatchesgesture) for usage.

#### Native Stack now requires `react-native-screens` 4

`@react-navigation/native-stack` now requires `react-native-screens` 4 and will break when using an earlier version. If you are using Native Stack Navigator in your project, make sure to upgrade `react-native-screens` to version 4.

See [Native Stack Navigator](native-stack-navigator.md) for usage.

#### Material Top Tab Navigator no longer requires installing `react-native-tab-view`

Previously, `@react-navigation/material-top-tabs` required installing `react-native-tab-view` as a dependency in the project. We have now moved this package to the React Navigation monorepo and able to coordinate the releases together, so it's no longer necessary to install it separately.

If you use `@react-navigation/material-top-tabs` and don't use `react-native-tab-view` anywhere else in your project, you can remove it from your dependencies after upgrading.

If you need to enforce a specific version of `react-native-tab-view` for some reason, we recommend using [Yarn resolutions](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/selective-version-resolutions/) or [npm overrides](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v9/configuring-npm/package-json#overrides) to do so.

See [Material Top Tab Navigator](material-top-tab-navigator.md) for usage.

#### The `unmountOnBlur` option is removed in favor of `popToTopOnBlur` in Bottom Tab Navigator and Drawer Navigator

In many cases, the desired behavior is to return to the first screen of the stack nested in a tab or drawer navigator after it's unfocused. Previously, the `unmountOnBlur` option was used to achieve this behavior. However, it had some issues:

- It destroyed the local state of the screen in the stack.
- It was slow to remount the nested navigator on tab navigation.

The `popToTopOnBlur` option provides an alternative approach - it pops the screens on a nested stack to go back to the first screen in the stack and doesn't have the above issues.

See [Bottom Tab Navigator](bottom-tab-navigator.md#poptoptoponblur) and [Drawer Navigator](drawer-navigator.md#poptoptoponblur) docs for usage.

It's still possible to achieve the old behavior of `unmountOnBlur` by using the useIsFocused hook in the screen:

```js
const isFocused = useIsFocused();

if (!isFocused) {
  return null;
}
```

This could also be combined with the new [layout props](#new-layout-props) to specify it at the screen configuration level.

#### The `tabBarTestID` option is renamed to `tabBarButtonTestID` in Bottom Tab Navigator and Material Top Tab Navigator

The `tabBarTestID` option in `@react-navigation/bottom-tabs` and `@react-navigation/material-top-tabs` is renamed to `tabBarButtonTestID` to better reflect its purpose. If you are using `tabBarTestID` in your project, you can rename it to `tabBarButtonTestID`:

```diff lang=js
- <Tab.Navigator tabBarOptions={{ tabBarTestID: 'test-id' }}>
+ <Tab.Navigator tabBarOptions={{ tabBarButtonTestID: 'test-id' }}>
```

See [Bottom Tab Navigator](bottom-tab-navigator.md#tabbarbuttontestid) and [Material Top Tab Navigator](material-top-tab-navigator.md#tabbarbuttontestid) docs for usage.

#### The `sceneContainerStyle` prop and option are removed from Bottom Tab Navigator, Material Top Tab Navigator and Drawer Navigator in favor of `sceneStyle`

Previously, the Bottom Tab Navigator and Material Top Tab Navigator accepted a `sceneContainerStyle` prop to style the container of the scene. This was inflexible as it didn't allow different styles for different screens. Now, the `sceneStyle` option is added to these navigators to style individual screens.

Similarly, the `sceneContainerStyle` option in Drawer Navigator is renamed to `sceneStyle` for consistency.

If you are using `sceneContainerStyle` prop, you can pass `sceneStyle` in `screenOptions` instead to keep the same behavior:

```diff lang=js
- <Tab.Navigator sceneContainerStyle={{ backgroundColor: 'white' }}>
+ <Tab.Navigator screenOptions={{ sceneStyle: { backgroundColor: 'white' } }}>
```

#### Drawer Navigator now requires Reanimated 2 or 3 on native platforms

Previously, `@react-navigation/drawer` supported both Reanimated 1 and Reanimated 2 APIs with the `useLegacyImplementation` option. This is now no longer supported and the `useLegacyImplementation` option is removed.

If you are using Reanimated 1 in your project, you'll need to upgrade to Reanimated 2 or 3 to use `@react-navigation/drawer`.

If you're using Drawer Navigator on the Web, it'll now use CSS transitions instead of Reanimated for a smaller bundle size.

See [Drawer Navigator](drawer-navigator.md) for usage.

### Deprecations and removals

#### Material Bottom Tab Navigator now lives in `react-native-paper` package

The `@react-navigation/material-bottom-tabs` package provided React Navigation integration for `react-native-paper`'s `BottomNavigation` component. To make it easier to keep it updated with the changes in `react-native-paper`, we have now moved it to the `react-native-paper` package.

If you are using `@react-navigation/material-bottom-tabs` in your project, you can remove it from your dependencies and change the imports to `react-native-paper/react-navigation` instead:

```diff lang=js
- import { createMaterialBottomTabNavigator } from '@react-navigation/material-bottom-tabs';
+ import { createMaterialBottomTabNavigator } from 'react-native-paper/react-navigation';
```

See [Material Bottom Tab Navigator](https://callstack.github.io/react-native-paper/docs/guides/bottom-navigation/) for usage.

#### The flipper devtools plugin is now removed

Previously, we added a Flipper plugin for React Navigation to make debugging navigation easier. However, it has added significant maintenance overhead for us. The Flipper team hasn't been focused on React Native recently, so the overall experience of using Flipper with React Native has been poor.

> Currently, the Flipper team has been focused on native developer experience, so we are going back to the drawing board. We have created a new pillar within our team focused on Developer Experience. We are currently investigating improved Chrome Debugger protocol support from the Hermes team as well as migrating the debugging experience from Flipper to Chrome DevTools so we can deliver a debugging experience that meets our standard.
>
> [react-native-community/discussions-and-proposals#546 (comment)](https://github.com/react-native-community/discussions-and-proposals/discussions/546#discussioncomment-4178951)

Since the React Native team migrating away from Flipper, it doesn't make much sense for us to spend additional resources to keep supporting it. So we've removed the Flipper plugin from `@react-navigation/devtools`.

Alternatively, you can use the following developer tools:

- [Logger](devtools.md#uselogger)
- [Integration for Redux DevTools Extension](devtools.md#usereduxdevtoolsextension)
- [Devtools plugin for Expo](https://docs.expo.dev/debugging/devtools-plugins/#react-navigation) if you are using [Expo](https://expo.dev).

#### Various deprecated APIs are removed

We have removed all of the previously deprecated APIs. These APIs were deprecated in React Navigation 6 and showed a warning when used. So make sure that you have addressed all the warnings before upgrading.

<details>
<summary>Full list of removed APIs</summary>

- `@react-navigation/stack`
  - Removed `mode` prop - use `presentation` option instead
  - Removed `headerMode` prop - use `headerMode` and `headerShown` options instead
  - Removed `keyboardHandlingEnabled` prop - use `keyboardHandlingEnabled` option instead
- `@react-navigation/drawer`
  - Removed `openByDefault` prop - use `defaultStatus` prop instead
  - Removed `lazy` prop - use `lazy` option instead
  - Removed `drawerContentOptions` prop which contained following options:
    - `drawerPosition` - use `drawerPosition` option instead
    - `drawerType` - use `drawerType` option instead
    - `edgeWidth` - use `swipeEdgeWidth` option instead
    - `hideStatusBar` - use `drawerHideStatusBarOnOpen` option instead
    - `keyboardDismissMode` - use `keyboardDismissMode` option instead
    - `minSwipeDistance` - use `swipeMinDistance` option instead
    - `overlayColor` - use `overlayColor` option instead
    - `statusBarAnimation` - use `drawerStatusBarAnimation` option instead
    - `gestureHandlerProps` - use `gestureHandlerProps` option instead
- `@react-navigation/bottom-tabs`
  - Removed `lazy` prop - use `lazy` option instead
  - Removed `tabBarOptions` prop which contained following options:
    - `keyboardHidesTabBar` - use `tabBarHideOnKeyboard` option instead
    - `activeTintColor` - use `tabBarActiveTintColor` option instead
    - `inactiveTintColor` - use `tabBarInactiveTintColor` option instead
    - `activeBackgroundColor` - use `tabBarActiveBackgroundColor` option instead
    - `inactiveBackgroundColor` - use `tabBarInactiveBackgroundColor` option instead
    - `allowFontScaling` - use `tabBarAllowFontScaling` option instead
    - `showLabel` - use `tabBarShowLabel` option instead
    - `labelStyle` - use `tabBarLabelStyle` option instead
    - `iconStyle` - use `tabBarIconStyle` option instead
    - `tabStyle` - use `tabBarItemStyle` option instead
    - `labelPosition` and `adapative` - use `tabBarLabelPosition` option instead
    - `tabBarVisible` - use `display: 'none'` `tabBarStyle` option instead
- `@react-navigation/material-top-tabs`
  - Removed `swipeEnabled` prop - use `swipeEnabled` option instead
  - Removed `lazy` prop - use `lazy` option instead
  - Removed `lazyPlaceholder` prop - use `lazyPlaceholder` option instead
  - Removed `lazyPreloadDistance` prop - use `lazyPreloadDistance` option instead
  - Removed `tabBarOptions` prop which contained following options: - `renderBadge` - use `tabBarBadge` option instead - `renderIndicator` - use `tabBarIndicator` option instead - `activeTintColor` - use `tabBarActiveTintColor` option instead - `inactiveTintColor` - use `tabBarInactiveTintColor` option instead - `pressColor` - use `tabBarPressColor` option instead - `pressOpacity` - use `tabBarPressOpacity` option instead - `showLabel` - use `tabBarShowLabel` option instead - `showIcon` - use `tabBarShowIcon` option instead - `allowFontScaling` - use `tabBarAllowFontScaling` option instead - `bounces` - use `tabBarBounces` option instead - `scrollEnabled` - use `tabBarScrollEnabled` option instead - `iconStyle` - use `tabBarIconStyle` option instead - `labelStyle` - use `tabBarLabelStyle` option instead - `tabStyle` - use `tabBarItemStyle` option instead - `indicatorStyle` - use `tabBarIndicatorStyle` option instead - `indicatorContainerStyle` - use `tabBarIndicatorContainerStyle` option instead - `contentContainerStyle` - use `tabBarContentContainerStyle` option instead - `style` - use `tabBarStyle` option instead

</details>

### Miscellaneous

#### Various UI elements now follow Material Design 3 guidelines

Previously, the UI elements in React Navigation such as the header on platforms other than iOS, drawer, material top tabs etc. were following the Material Design 2 guidelines. We have now updated them to follow the Material Design 3 guidelines.

#### React Native Tab View now has a new API to specify various options

The API for the `TabView` and `TabBar` component in `react-native-tab-view` has been revamped. Previously, the `TabBar` took the following props:

- `getLabelText`
- `getAccessible`
- `getAccessibilityLabel`
- `getTestID`
- `renderIcon`
- `renderLabel`
- `renderBadge`

These props have been replaced with `commonOptions` and `options` props on `TabView`:

```js
<TabView
  commonOptions={{
    icon: ({ route, focused, color }) => (
      <Icon name={route.icon} color={color} />
    ),
  }}
  options={{
    albums: {
      labelText: 'Albums',
    },
    profile: {
      labelText: 'Profile',
    },
  }}
/>
```

When using a custom tab bar, it will receive the `options` in the arguments.

The new API will make it easier for us to improve re-rendering performance of the tab bar items in the library.

See [React Native Tab View](tab-view.md#options) for usage.

#### Custom navigators now require more type information

Custom navigators now require more type information to work correctly so that we can provide better type-checking and autocompletion in TypeScript when using the navigator.

```diff lang=js
- export const createMyNavigator =  createNavigatorFactory<
-   MyNavigationState<ParamListBase>,
-   MyNavigationOptions,
-   MyNavigationEventMap,
-   typeof MyNavigator
- >(MyNavigator);
+ export function createMyNavigator<
+   const ParamList extends ParamListBase,
+   const NavigatorID extends string | undefined = undefined,
+   const TypeBag extends NavigatorTypeBagBase = {
+     ParamList: ParamList;
+     NavigatorID: NavigatorID;
+     State: TabNavigationState<ParamList>;
+     ScreenOptions: TabNavigationOptions;
+     EventMap: TabNavigationEventMap;
+     NavigationList: {
+       [RouteName in keyof ParamList]: TabNavigationProp<
+         ParamList,
+         RouteName,
+         NavigatorID
+       >;
+     };
+     Navigator: typeof TabNavigator;
+   },
+   const Config extends StaticConfig<TypeBag> = StaticConfig<TypeBag>,
+ >(config?: Config): TypedNavigator<TypeBag, Config> {
+   return createNavigatorFactory(MyNavigator)(config);
+ }
```

See [Custom navigators](custom-navigators.md) for usage.

#### Packages now use ESM and package exports

All the packages in React Navigation now use ESM exports. While it shouldn't affect most users, there are some changes to be aware of:

- If you are importing internal files from the packages, they might now be restricted by your bundler and it won't be possible to import them directly. You should use the public API instead.
- If you're patching the packages using `patch-package`, `yarn patch` etc., you'll need to patch the built files under `lib/` folders instead of the source files under `src/` as the source files are no longer exported.
- If you're using Webpack, it maybe necessary to set [`resolve.fullySpecified`](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/module/#resolvefullyspecified) to `false` for bundling to work.

## New features

### Static configuration API

React Navigation 5 introduced a dynamic API to support more flexible use cases. With React Navigation 7, we are re-introducing a static configuration API:

```js
import { createNativeStackNavigator } from 'react-native-screens/native-stack';

const MyStack = createNativeStackNavigator({
  screens: {
    Home: {
      screen: HomeScreen,
      options: {
        title: 'My App',
      },
    },
    Details: {
      screen: DetailsScreen,
      linking: 'details/:id',
    },
  },
});
```

The static configuration API provides the following benefits:

- **Simpler type-checking with TypeScript**: It's not necessary to specify screens and their params separately. See [Type checking with TypeScript](typescript.md?config=static) for more details.
- **Easier deep linking setup**: Paths can be generated automatically. Linking configuration can be defined next to the screen for explicit configuration. See [Configuring links](configuring-links.md?config=static) for more details.

It's also possible to mix the static and dynamic configuration APIs. For example, you can use the static configuration API for the top-level navigators and the dynamic configuration API for the nested navigators where you need more flexibility.

:::note

The static configuration API doesn't replace the dynamic configuration API. Both APIs are equally supported and you can choose the one that fits your use case better.

:::

You can see examples for both the static and dynamic configuration APIs in the documentation by selecting the appropriate tab in the examples.

Go to ["Hello React Navigation"](hello-react-navigation.md?config=static) to start writing some code with the static API.

### Improved TypeScript support

Previously, the `navigation` object received in `options` and `listeners` callbacks were typed as `any` and required manual type annotation. Now, the `navigation` object has a more accurate type based on the navigator it's used in, and the type annotation is no longer required.

We also export a new `XOptionsArgs` (where `X` is the navigator name, e.g. `StackOptionsArgs`, `BottomTabOptionsArgs` etc.) type which can be used to type the arguments of the `options` callback. This can be useful if you want to define the options callback separately.

```ts
const options = ({
  route,
}: StackOptionsArgs<RootStackParamList, 'Details'>) => {
  return {
    title: route.params.title,
  };
};
```

### Improved RTL support

Previously, various UI elements used the `I18nManager` API to determine the writing direction. However, this API doesn't work well on the Web as the writing direction can be different for a specific subtree and hence can't be determined globally.

The `NavigationContainer` now accepts a `direction` prop to specify the direction of the layout instead of relying on the `I18nManager` API. It also exposes this value via `useLocale` hook for use in your own components.

See the [navigation container docs](navigation-container.md#direction) for usage.

### The `options` callback gets `theme`

The `options` callback now receives the `theme` object to allow customizing the UI elements specified in the options:

```jsx
<Stack.Screen
  name="Details"
  component={DetailsScreen}
  options={({ theme }) => ({
    headerRight: () => (
      <IconButton
        icon="dots-horizontal"
        onPress={() => {}}
        color={theme.colors.primary}
      />
    ),
  })}
/>
```

See [Screen options](screen-options.md) for usage.

### Top-level `path` in linking config

The linking configuration now supports a top-level `path` configuration to define the base path for all the screens in the navigator:

```js
const linking = {
  prefixes: ['https://mysite.com'],
  config: {
    // highlight-next-line
    path: 'app',
    screens: {
      Home: 'home',
      Details: 'details/:id',
    },
  },
};
```

This can be useful if your app lives under a subpath on the web. For example, if your app lives under `https://mysite.com/app`, you can define the `path` as `app` and the `Details` screen will be accessible at `https://mysite.com/app/details/42`.

See [Configuring links](configuring-links.md#apps-under-subpaths) for usage.

### Improved Web integration

More built-in UI elements that trigger navigation now render `a` tags on the Web for better accessibility and SEO. This includes:

- Back button in the header
- The tab buttons in material top tab navigator

UI elements such as the bottom tab bar and drawer items already rendered `a` tags on the Web.

### New `usePreventRemove` hook

Previously, the only way to prevent a screen from being removed from the stack was to use the `beforeRemove` event. This didn't work well with the Native Stack Navigator.

The new `usePreventRemove` hook is an alternative to `beforeRemove` that works with the Native Stack Navigator.

See [`usePreventRemove`](use-prevent-remove.md) for usage.

### New `layout` props

#### For navigators

Navigators now support a `layout` prop. It can be useful for augmenting the navigators with additional UI with a wrapper. The difference from adding a regular wrapper is that the code in `layout` callback has access to the navigator's state, options etc.:

```jsx
<Stack.Navigator
  // highlight-start
  layout={({ children, state, descriptors, navigation }) => (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Breadcrumbs />
      {children}
    </View>
  )}
  // highlight-end
>
  {/* ... */}
</Stack.Navigator>
```

See [Navigator layout](navigator.md#layout) for usage.

#### For screens and groups

The `layout` prop makes it easier to provide things such as a global error boundary and suspense fallback for a group of screens without having to manually add HOCs for every screen separately.

It can be used for a single screen with [`layout`](screen.md#layout):

```jsx
<Stack.Screen
  name="MyScreen"
  component={MyScreenComponent}
  // highlight-start
  layout={({ children }) => (
    <ErrorBoundary>
      <React.Suspense
        fallback={
          <View style={styles.fallback}>
            <Text style={styles.text}>Loading…</Text>
          </View>
        }
      >
        {children}
      </React.Suspense>
    </ErrorBoundary>
  )}
  // highlight-end
/>
```

Or with a [group](group.md#screen-layout) or [navigator](navigator.md#screen-layout) with `screenLayout`:

```jsx
<Stack.Group
  // highlight-start
  screenLayout={({ children }) => (
    <ErrorBoundary>
      <React.Suspense
        fallback={
          <View style={styles.fallback}>
            <Text style={styles.text}>Loading…</Text>
          </View>
        }
      >
        {children}
      </React.Suspense>
    </ErrorBoundary>
  )}
>
  // highlight-end
  {/* screens */}
</Stack.Group>
```

### Preloading screens

All built-in navigators now support preloading screens prior to navigating to them. This can be useful to improve the perceived performance of the app by preloading the screens that the user is likely to navigate to next. Preloading a screen will render it off-screen and execute its side-effects such as data fetching.

To preload a screen, you can use the `preload` method on the navigation object:

```js
navigation.preload('Details', { id: 42 });
```

See [`preload`](navigation-object.md#preload) for usage.

### Improvements to navigators

#### Bottom Tab Navigator can now show tabs on the side and top

The `@react-navigation/bottom-tabs` package now supports showing tabs on the side. This will make it easier to build responsive UIs for where you want to show tabs on the bottom on smaller screens and switch to a sidebar on larger screens.

Similarly, showing tabs on the top is also supported which can be useful for Android TV or Apple TV apps.

You can use the `tabBarPosition` option to customize the position of the tabs:

```jsx
<Tab.Navigator
  screenOptions={{
    // highlight-next-line
    tabBarPosition: 'left',
  }}
>
  {/* ... */}
</Tab.Navigator>
```

See [Bottom Tab Navigator options](bottom-tab-navigator.md#tabbarposition) for usage.

#### Bottom Tab Navigator now supports animations

The `@react-navigation/bottom-tabs` package now supports animations. This was one of the most requested features on our Canny board: [TabNavigator Custom Transition](https://react-navigation.canny.io/feature-requests/p/tabnavigator-custom-transition).

You can use the `animation` option to customize the animations for the tab transitions:

```jsx
<Tab.Navigator
  screenOptions={{
    // highlight-next-line
    animation: 'fade',
  }}
>
  {/* ... */}
</Tab.Navigator>
```

See [Bottom Tab Navigator animation](bottom-tab-navigator.md#animation) for usage.

#### Stack Navigator now supports an `animation` option

The `@react-navigation/stack` package now supports an `animation` option to customize the animations for the screen transitions:

```jsx
<Stack.Navigator
  screenOptions={{
    // highlight-next-line
    animation: 'slide_from_right',
  }}
>
  {/* ... */}
</Stack.Navigator>
```

The `animation` option is an alternative to the `TransitionPresets` API, and is intended to make migrating between JS stack and native stack navigators easier.

See [Stack Navigator animation](stack-navigator.md#animation) for usage.

#### Native Stack Navigator now exports a `useAnimatedHeaderHeight` hook

The `@react-navigation/native-stack` package now exports a `useAnimatedHeaderHeight` hook. It can be used to animate content based on the header height changes - such as when the large title shrinks to a small title on iOS:

```jsx
const headerHeight = useAnimatedHeaderHeight();

return (
  <Animated.View style={{ transform: { translateY: headerHeight } }}>
    {/* ... */}
  </Animated.View>
);
```

#### All navigators with headers now support `headerSearchBarOptions`

The `Header` component from `@react-navigation/elements` now supports a `headerSearchBarOptions` prop. This means all navigators that use the `Header` component now support a search bar in the header as well on all platforms. Previously, this was only available in the Native Stack Navigator on iOS and Android.

```js
React.useLayoutEffect(() => {
  navigation.setOptions({
    headerSearchBarOptions: {
      placeholder: 'Search',
      onChangeText: (text) => {
        // Do something
      },
    },
  });
}, [navigation]);
```

See [`headerSearchBarOptions`](elements.md#headersearchbaroptions) for usage.

### New components in elements library

The `@react-navigation/elements` package now includes new components that can be used in your app:

#### `Button`

The `Button` component has built-in support for navigating to screens, and renders an anchor tag on the Web when used for navigation:

```jsx
<Button screen="Profile" params={{ userId: 'jane' }}>
  View Jane's Profile
<Button>
```

It can also be used as a regular button:

```jsx
<Button
  onPress={() => {
    /* do something */
  }}
>
  Do something
</Button>
```

The button follows the [Material Design 3 guidelines](https://m3.material.io/components/buttons/overview).

See [`Button`](elements.md#button) for usage.

#### `HeaderButton`

The `HeaderButton` component can be used to render buttons in the header with appropriate styling:

```js
headerRight: ({ tintColor }) => (
  <HeaderButton
    accessibilityLabel="More options"
    onPress={() => {
      /* do something */
    }}
  >
    <MaterialCommunityIcons
      name="dots-horizontal-circle-outline"
      size={24}
      color={tintColor}
    />
  </HeaderButton>
),
```

See [`HeaderButton`](elements.md#headerbutton) for usage.

#### `Label`

The `Label` component can be used to render label text, such as the label in a tab bar button:

```jsx
<Label>Home</Label>
```

See [`Label`](elements.md#label) for usage.

### `react-native-drawer-layout` package

The drawer implementation used in `@react-navigation/drawer` is now available as a standalone package called `react-native-drawer-layout`. This makes it easier to use the drawer implementation even if you're not using React Navigation, or if you want to use it without a navigator.

You can install it with:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install react-native-drawer-layout
```

See [`react-native-drawer-layout`](drawer-layout.md) for usage.

### `useLogger` devtool

The `@react-navigation/devtools` package now exports a `useLogger` hook. It can be used to log navigation actions to the console:

See [`useLogger`](devtools.md#uselogger) for usage.
